09/24/2022 Saturday 

VPC day1 

1. VPC stands for --> Virtual Private Cloud 
2. Why VPC --> For network isolation. Basically by using VPC we create Private Cloud in Public Cloud space. 
3. First AWS region must be selected. For example. us-east-1, us-west-2, eu-central-1
4. Best practice is to delete default VPC (Upon creation of aws account provided vpc)
5. IP (internet protocol). 2 kinds of IPs. 1) ipv4 and 2) ipv6
6. Reason for IPv6 because number of ipv4 is running out. 
7. /16, /24, /28, /32 it means number of IPs vpc gets. 
8. How do you decide which ip used for vpc? companies have own ip pool which is reserved corporate IPs. 
8. giving wider cidr range to vpc is terrible idea because it raises huge security concern. 
9. Only 1 internet gateway attached to only 1 vpc 
10. Why Subnet/AZ (Availability Zone). AZs are Data Centers which is isolated from each other with decent distance. 
11. Overlapping IPs not allowed for Subnets in the same VPC
11. Benefits of AZ --> HA (High Availability), DR (Disaster Recovery), FT (Fault Tolerence) and Zero Down Time 
12. By default Subnets are private. Becauase they don't have internet connectivity by default. 
Scenario: BMW and Mercedes. Lets say BMW and Mercedes store their data in the same Public Cloud Space (AWS).
Their infra becomes vulnarable, basically data exposed to each other. In order to achieve isloation VPC will be used. 
13. NACL (Network Access Control List) --> Security 
14. Differences between SG (Security Group) and NACL 
    14.1 --> SG is stateful --> Once inbound rules defined you don't have to define outbound rules. Outbound
    rules by default ALLOWED. Unlike SG NACL is stateless. Once Inbound rules defined Outbound rules 
    must be explicitly defined. 
    14.2 --> NACL works in Subnet level, SG works in EC2 (Virtual Machine) level 
    14.3 --> NACL goes by rule number. Lower number has higher priority. 

Demo:
Do you know what is 3 tier solution in AWS VPC? 

1. During Subnet assigning cidr ip OCTET used. Basically 10 IPs reserved for future use. 
2. NAT Gateway --> gives private connectivity from public instances to private 
3. NAT Gateway must sit in Public Subnet 
4. Elastic IP --> static IP (no changed). 
5. Do we need to pay for Elastic IP --> It depends. While using its free otherwise its not free. 
6. Nat Gateway used in Private Route Table 